This question relates to remarriage and the age-old
dilemma of "my child, your child,
our child." The older generation has passed away, while the younger generation
is having many children.
I am 27 years old,
currently in a relationship with a man who has been
divorced and has a child.
Initially, he didn't
mention the child and didn't visit her
often, but recently he's been
bringing her home more frequently, about
three times a week. I've also talked to
him about it and agreed that if we get married, I'll
accept raising his daughter. The problem is,
when his daughter isn't around, he
pays attention to her, cares for her, and loves her, but
when his daughter is, he acts as if she doesn't
exist. He even tells
me that his daughter is the most important, then
me. I know I shouldn't be
jealous of a child. Because I
love him, I accept that he has a
child from a previous relationship. Once, I suggested that
his daughter is his and
I am her. Why does he always bring
his daughter up?  My emotions were stirred when
he raised his voice at the child, causing the child to fall silent,
but honestly, this issue is very upsetting to me,
and I don't know how to handle it
properly. Could you please give me some advice on this?
This situation is
very common, stemming from the feelings of
couples who have children. We
can understand why child
abuse occurs against a spouse's child from a previous relationship.
Why does this happen? Because when
in love, the person with the child always
prioritizes their partner.
The child is the presence that
the father must care for, or the mother
must
care for. Because of this mindset, the
feelings towards the spouse become a source of
jealousy, leading to
subtle actions behind the scenes. They
might say things like, "Today your child was naughty at home,"
or "My child was like this or that at home."
If the partner does
n't listen,
conflicts can arise. For example,
if the man has a child from a previous relationship, the
woman might refuse to sleep with him.  That's
how women often get angry and
refuse to sleep together. If you want to sleep with your wife, you
have to treat her child badly. And what about
if the wife has a child from a previous relationship? The
husband will
hate her and treat her badly.
Because the wife doesn't
want to lose her husband, she has to treat
her child badly because the child doesn't understand.
But we, the husband and wife, have feelings for each other, and the
child is out of sight and out of mind because
they suffer and don't know who to talk to. The
father yells, the mother yells, so the child
endures it.
Because the child endures it, we take it out on them. If we argue,
even a single word between us
will cause discord, so we should resolve our issues first. This should be a warning to
those
who are angry with each other and want a divorce.
Think about your children.
Children are truly vulnerable and cannot share their problems
with anyone. Because when a husband and wife
divorce, they become enemies.
If a child, raised by their mother,
talks to their father, the mother will give them a
beating.  Abusive behavior: If a child whose adoptive father
talks to their mother, the father will attack
them because using children to
take revenge is a terrible thing for those children. It's
very painful for the children after their
parents divorce. This psychology is
very normal because when
you love someone, you want them to
reciprocate your feelings. That's
how the world is, that's how sentient beings are.
Selfishness is a characteristic of sentient beings.
If you want to overcome
selfishness, you must cultivate a virtuous heart. Otherwise,
if you love, you will have selfishness. Selfishness
leads to jealousy, jealousy
leads to hatred, hatred leads
to revenge. That's what love is like. If things
don't go as you wish, love
will lead to such
emotional turmoil. So, if
we understand this,
all husbands and wives should
reconsider. If your partner is incapable of
remarrying, then you should move
on because the child will have someone to raise.
But if they are capable, then the child...
Yen
advised her friend, "If
you love him, don't leave him. But if
you feel like leaving, then leave.
You love someone who isn't married, and your friend says you
can't leave him,
but you have to
believe this is fate. You've already
seen it coming; he
has to care about his child. So now,
if you want his affection,
you'll have to suffer. But if
you win his affection,
this child will suffer because
your feelings towards the child will
never change. If you do
n't practice self-control, then Yen says there
's a very good solution for you: you have to believe in
karma.
He loves the child because he has a karmic connection
with the child. He's the child's father, so he has a karmic connection with
the child. He also loves
you. So if you truly love
this child as your own, you will
receive complete love because there was a
conflict between the parents, which is why they left."
Therefore, you should truly love and
care for this child. If you have
one child, you will have two
children to serve you later. If you
want to have feelings for him and he reciprocates them,
you must
love this child. Take
time to rediscover yourself.
Can you truly love this child?
If you truly love this child, then
proceed with marriage.
Otherwise, if you treat this child badly, your
child will bear the
full consequences. Because an
evil heart cannot give birth to a good child. A
mother's heart that is evil towards a child
will attract evil children
to become her own. Your heart must be filled with
love and compassion for children to attract good children
to your home.
I can also guide you on how to do this:
you can pick up the baby yourself,
buy clothes for the baby, and take
care of the baby yourself. Rest assured, you
won't lose any money.  She said, "
Selfishness, if you have it, because if you
buy something for the child, the father will give you money.
If you buy one dress, he'll give you
two. You keep taking care of it, and then eventually the
father will say, 'That's enough, honey.'
So you have to love
the child before you can proceed with
marriage. If you can't love
the child, your evil heart will lead
you to do many evil things. First, you'll
lose your husband, then your child will be born
unhealthy. When you can't control yourself, you
'll do bad things, the child will
suffer, and you'll be condemned by society
because you can't control
your actions. So
you have to cultivate karma, you have to learn about
karma. If you know what causes
good karma, you will voluntarily practice it. That's
why the situation with 'my child, your child,
our child' is so difficult.
Honestly,
if you can't love the child,
it's really difficult in our family. There
are two siblings with the same parents, the
older one is still there."  If I buy gifts
for my younger sibling, when will I ever repay them? Most of the time, they're
from the same parents.
Later, when I have children, that mentality
becomes even stronger, leading to
misunderstandings and causing the older child to feel sad and
resentful, creating conflict.
It's very
complicated if we don't
handle things skillfully. Therefore, becoming a
husband to someone who is already married and
has children, or becoming a wife to
someone who is divorced and has a wife and children, is
very difficult. It's a problem that takes a
lifetime to solve; otherwise, you'll live
a life of resentment if you don't know how to cultivate
yourself, how to transform, and how to be close
to the child. It's very difficult to resolve because
young
people need time alone
together. There's a lot of that, and suddenly a
child is there, constantly present. Only
those with great spiritual practice
or a very kind heart can do that.
Husbands and wives need a lot of
space.  Having personal space as a
daughter-in-law is already uncomfortable, and now there's
a child following you everywhere
like a baby. That's unbearable!
So, Yen wants to send a message to all of
you who have children, whether it's your
child, your child, or
our child: think carefully before you get
married. And for those of you who have families and want to separate
to build a new life,
think about these difficulties beforehand.
Don't build a paradise for yourselves
where you think, "I'll leave you, I'll raise my
child well, I'll marry someone else, and that person will
love my child." Don't be like that,
because where there's love, there's jealousy. It's
not just jealousy towards women, but jealousy
towards anyone
you love. It's not just
jealousy towards someone else.
Yen wants to tell you all that there are mothers-
in-law who are jealous of their daughters-in-law. It's not uncommon.
I love my son very much, but
now I see my daughter-in-law taking care of him, and I might
not necessarily like it. I'll find
fault with everything, but this mother-in-law didn't
realize it.  So, I'm
jealous. If a mother wasn't jealous, she'd be
happy to see her daughter-in-law taking care of her son, or her son taking care of his wife, and she'd
tell them to take better care of each other.
But if a mother sees her daughter-in-law
taking care of her son, or her son taking care of his
wife too much, she gets jealous. You're worshipping them, putting them on a pedestal, aren't you? You even scold your
son
because of jealousy. Basically, we're ignorant and
don't realize it. Because we see
our son giving affection to someone else,
we feel uncomfortable. But actually, if he takes care of his
wife, then when he
gets taken care of in return,
we're happy. If our son knew how to take care of his wife, and his wife knew how to take care of him, we'd be at peace. Even if I die, as long as they know how to take care of each other, I won't have to worry,
right? Now, when we have children,
we only hope they're happy.
Knowing they care for each other is enough.
That's why a mother can be jealous
of her child, it's not like we don't.
Therefore, jealousy is the act of
infringing upon the person we
love.  So, because they don't want to, they
become jealous, and that's why many mothers-in-law are
difficult with their daughters-in-law. In many cases, it
's genetic, not that
they're upset because the son isn't being taken care of. That's
rare, right? The
case where they see something and say, "You have to
take care of him." It's rare for a husband and wife to tolerate
each other and live happily together.
Such mothers-in-law are very rare, not
common at all. For example, a mother-in-law might say, "You have to be skillful, you
have to win your husband's
heart, you have to love
each other, you have to do this to
make your husband happy," and then on the other hand, she says, "You have to do this to make your wife happy." Is
n't that rare? Why do I find it rare? Because I
find it difficult to do it myself.
From my own perspective, I can infer that others find it
difficult, it's not impossible. It really
is difficult. Now I
realize that when I have children, when I have a
boyfriend, I also have to go through these things. At
first, it's my son, I
pour all my love into him, I
share everything with him, until...  She goes on to share
with others, and if we're not quick enough in our
thinking—hoping that our child has
someone to share with, hoping that our child will
find someone compatible, someone to
share everything with—and we don't offer
ourselves a solution, a way to
help them find
happiness together, then
we'll immediately fall into the trap of a defiled mind, and karma will be created right away.
So, Yen really hopes that the mothers-in-
law and mothers-in-law here will do a really
good job, advising their children
not to leave each other, advising them to be true mothers, not to be overly protective, seeing their children taking care of their daughters-in-law,
seeing their daughters-in-law happy, thinking how they suffered
in the past, not having a husband to take care of them, and now feeling resentful because they suffered too, and that they must
also suffer.
The teacher said, "I didn't get to experience that in the past."
That's not right! Yen also
hopes that we all have
this knowledge, then go and talk to our neighbors,
and know how to advise them.
Our age is the age when we start having
neighbors who are understanding and caring. There are stories about daughters-in-law and sons-in-law,
and other stories...  When someone
tells us about their troubles and worries,
we have to say, "Honestly, ma'am, do you
like it when your daughter-in-law serves your son, or do you like it when
your son serves his daughter-in-law?" I'm so frustrated. If
my son
keeps serving his wife, she'll be furious. She'll say, "Oh, but if he
doesn't serve her, she'll be happy, and
then he'll serve her another time,
right?" If your son does
n't get served by his daughter-in-law,
he'll never serve her. So, we
say that, and both sides are happy,
right? But if you say your
daughter-in-law doesn't serve your son, and when he
needs her, she doesn't, you're dead. If she does
n't serve your son,
he'll get frustrated, argue, have affairs, and
bring
a child from each mistress for you to raise. You're
dead. That's how you suffer even more. You
have to find a way to make your son love his daughter-in-law
and your daughter-in-law love your son. You see,
at this age, we should
apply Buddhist principles.
How can we ensure that our children maintain their precepts in their daily lives?
They should love each other and uphold the precept of
chastity. I advise you, my dear, so that
we don't fall into the
situation where they have children of yours, your children, or our children. Our
children would suffer, wouldn't they?
Yen is also very
happy that our Buddhist followers are so
caring towards their daughters-in-law and sons-in-law, so concerned about their
happiness. Those are
truly Buddhist mothers. Having mothers-in-law and
mothers-in-law who are Buddhists is
wonderful.
[Music]
K